Meeting 1

(Sounds of shuffling, phone ringing)

Bryan: Good morning.

Abia: Good morning. How are you?

Bryan: Very good, thank you.

Abia: Good. Did you register?

Bryan: I bought the insurance yesterday, I will register right after our meeting. Because when I looked online, they say you need, uh, insurance to register. So I got it yesterday. I think I have everything I need today.

Abia: Okay.

Abia: Yeah. So, what do we have here?

Bryan: So, this is just what I’m thinking, uh-huh, for the outline. So So I think here for the introduction

Abia: What’s the title?

Bryan: You can just give it maybe any

Abia: [interjection...] Yeah, I haven’t thought about that yet, but [interjection...]

Abia: Due, what are you aiming? Uh-huh.

Bryan: Um [interjection...] [laughter]

Bryan: The title is always the hardest.

Abia: Yeah. No, just just have maybe because the title will help you to Let’s see. Yeah, yeah.

Bryan: It guides you. Yeah.

Abia: We’ll guide you, okay? How do you want to structure your background?

Bryan: Yeah. This is for improving irrigation scheduling.

Abia: Yeah. And I think we need to bring in the uh the crop to

Bryan: Crop to Cloud or improving, let’s say, data driven irrigation scheduling in um, using the Crop platform.

Abia: Okay. Yeah. These are all for used, except Comparing methods for improving [interjection...] Maybe you can say assessing or evaluating data driven irrigation scheduling in maybe in Crop to Cloud using Anyway, in or using, I don’t know.

Bryan: Well, the efficacy Because when you're assessing, you assess the efficacy, Yeah.

Abia: Yes, so it's implied. Yeah. Yeah. So, maybe assessing data driven irrigation scheduling methods. Because they’re already in Crop to Cloud. Maybe Yeah, yeah, yeah. maybe in is it right? Is the right word to use? I don’t know. In the Yeah.

Bryan: In the Crop to Cloud. Yeah. Yeah, that’s a good start. Right.

Abia: Because the methods already

Bryan: Yeah, yeah, like on the platform.

Abia: The methods are already on the platform. Right?

Bryan: Yeah. Yeah.

Abia: Yes, I think, yeah. You can Make sense.

Bryan: You can fine tune that.

Abia: Yeah, this is a good start. So because, um, I feel like in the introduction, we’ll say, okay, these methods have been used, but, you know, the way people use them is they have to go in the field, access the data, download, maybe run run the data through spreadsheets. But then, now, there’s seamlessly automated in the Crop to Cloud platform. Yeah. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then So when you're talking talking about Crop to Cloud platform, you can say, “For further information” Yeah. if maybe we if the paper is already submitted, Yeah. we can say maybe references. Reference this brand. Reference this paper. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. You know? Um, but then the challenges of uh, collecting data to use for irrigation scheduling, you know. Um, labor intensive, time consuming, Yeah. Yeah. Mhm, mhm. Mhm. Mhm. and that's why that was maybe Was done. Yeah. the motive of designing the Crop to Cloud platform. Yeah. Okay. And then you go into data types, canopy temperature can be used. It can be measured. You know? Yeah. Using sensors, using maybe thermal cameras and da da da. Yeah. You know? So, I And then you have there You can even look into different indices. It's not only Crop Water Stress Index, Yeah. but there’s also other methods. Mhm. But then you could say maybe Mhm. in this paper, maybe in this study, we we use Crop Water Stress Index because it's the commonly used index. You know? And then you reference the papers, you know. It has been used in, uh, it has been used in crops like corn, uh, you give examples. And then talk about that for Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Mhm. I think each method has to be talked about, maybe you can each Maybe a short paragraph on each of the methods here. Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense. And now, why do we want to assess Why do we want to Because I guess I don't know if there's any if there's any study that has looked at comparing all of the methods. Mhm. You know? Within the same And how they are combined because in one or two, we’re combining them. And the combination, I think, that is so unique. Yeah. I’ve not seen Yeah. maybe The other thing here, it can be two sentences. This Crop Water Stress Index has been independently used, you know, as well as Soil Water Stress Index, but then there's a new method where we are coupling the two. Yeah. To schedule irrigation. We're integrating or maybe combining to make those. Yeah. Both methods. And then what is the major goal of this? Do you know the major goal? Mhm. Mhm, mhm. So, Mhm. I’m thinking, uh-huh So first, we want to determine like if we combine the two indices, is it helpful than using those than using them individually. So the way I can state them is, um, would combining or because, you know, Evaluating. If you go back to your data driven, I feel like okay. Efficacy of combining um, different indices um, of plant water stress in scheduling irrigation. Um, because one thing I’m thinking about this is is because the other paper focuses on the platform, Yeah. I don't know how much we need to emphasize or talk about the platform here because my idea for this paper was that we’re just looking at the data like uniquely. So I’m not sure where the platform would come in. No. Because the platform you're going to just in the methods, you're going to just briefly talk about it. Okay. This is the platform. Yeah. No, I’m not sure how it’s coming. So we use it, yeah. Yeah. So, because all the decisions, the data was coming through and you would see, okay, Crop Water Stress Index Yeah. is above zero point five. So, for the Crop Water Stress Index method, Yeah. we triggered irrigation. You know, those bars that you show, you know, and then for Soil Water Stress Index, if it was Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. If it's the same I think Above. Is above zero point five. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. We scheduled. But then comparing the two, for the Crop Water Stress Index, for both methods, Yeah. would either So how did we schedule? Was it because if both agreed, we triggered? Yes, so I think Yeah. How How did we do that? Okay. So if both triggered or Soil Water Stress Index triggered, right? Yeah. Or maybe both had to trigger? Both have to. I think both but I put in mechanisms for because, you know, sometimes the Crop Water Stress Index would not be valid, and only the Soil Water. So I think what we’re doing is we did a weighted average. Oh, a weighted average? Yeah, of the indices and then, after doing the weighted average point five was still the threshold. Yeah, which means we can say So. Yeah, either way, if it was weighted average, or Yeah. if both of them were above. Yeah. Because even if you did weighted average, if it was zero point five Yeah, if both were above, the weighted average would still be above. But then if one was zero point two, another one was zero point five. Then it will come to maybe point three, and it will not trigger. Yeah. So we could basically say, maybe before we say weighted average, we could say well, this method triggered irrigation when both were at least above zero point five. Yeah, yeah. Mhm. But then we do we would go ahead and do a weighted average just to see what is the common index compared to other compared to Crop Water Stress Index only, Soil Water Stress Index only. Does that make sense? Yeah. Mhm. Make sense. So because if it is zero point two, zero point three, Yeah. and then Yeah, you would average that out. Yeah, and maybe point two five which also. Oh, but then we had uh, we put more weight on Soil Water Stress Index. Yeah, I think I think it was point six, point four. I’ll check the specific value, but Yeah, yeah, yeah. So then we have to Yeah. We have to give a reason why more weight was added onto Yeah. Soil Water Stress Index. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right? Yeah. Yeah, makes sense. Yeah. Um, Yes. Yeah, so this would be a full kind of description of the different Yeah, that makes sense. So the overview, would that be in methods, or what? Because I think overview is maybe where we’re describing all these small things? Mhm. So the methods would be uh, Because I feel like or should it go in the comparison? That should be Okay, maybe first take me through So, okay, so what I was thinking Uh-huh. So in introduction, we gave some kind of brief background, uh-huh and then we also need to introduce each of the different systems. I'm thinking this can be a part of the introduction, but our introduction can have to Yes, so the introduction, you briefly, generally, talk about the methods, but you're not specific only, you know? You're not going to focus on each of them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. In which case, then maybe this can come down into the So, the that would be methods. Yeah. Yeah. After you talk about the field the study site and field experiment, then within the field experiment, that's when you're going to briefly talk about the platform, and then the platform You say, “Well, we access these On the platform, we can access all these uh methods”. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Then you start breaking it down. Okay. Crop Water Stress Index [interjection...] Yeah. Mhm. You know? It’s measured, you know? It's computed using canopy temperature, Yeah. and then using canopy temperature, weather information. Okay? And then and then you state how it is computed. Yeah. You can just maybe get information, the same information Yeah, from the other Probably I will put more detail here because the other one was more focused on the platform. Yeah. Yeah. So then, yeah, baselines and da da. So because now we are looking at both crops, you need to explain why you use You need to say, okay, maybe in soybeans, Yeah, the different considerations. Different use the used empirical approach, because, you know, maybe they're theoretical fail, maybe initially. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Yeah, yeah, yeah, particularly I think the problem was crop height. Because when I simulated it and like changed the crop height, very big differences. Then we can even show part of the results. We can maybe have a graph Yeah. Yeah, yeah. that, okay, shows, okay, early in the season, before we hit the max canopy height, it was giving us, you know, good, you know, good values. But then after we hit the max canopy, then Yeah. Yeah. it failed. Yeah. Yeah. So then you could show, maybe it was over it was beyond Yeah. one point five, over one. You know? Mhm, mhm. Yeah. And think about Yeah, makes sense. Does that make sense? Make sense. Make sense. Yeah, I’m not sure exactly why, so I would have to look at all the data Plot everything again. I mean you do But I have it. Yeah. I think what you would do Let me just get a picture here. I feel like what you would do, because it’s better we have that, maybe, in the results. So what How What I would do, is running the empirical for corn No, I mean theoretical for corn and soybeans. Okay? Because we have all those values daily. You know? So for the daily, maybe we choose, um Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. um Okay, so we have maybe We started when? Was it June, July? Late June. So maybe June 23rd. I think that's the earliest data point. June June Okay. June. So for June, we’ll run Crop Water Stress Index for June. Yeah. So we do the box plot, like daily. Should we include values that exceed the threshold? So those are outliers. In the box plot, it will show you. What I’m asking is because, when the values exceed the threshold, they really exceed, like big negative values. Right. So those, we can maybe cut at one We can cut at one point five. Right? So you show, okay, June, July So July, Yeah. Yeah. and then August Yeah. So we stopped And then some part of September, right? Yeah. Okay. So then we can say for corn, it didn't shoot up. You know? But then, maybe for soybeans, you have something like this, right? Yeah. Right, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah. If the data look like that, then Yeah. Yeah. So then we say, so we used we used the theoretical for two months, and then for this month, we used empirical. The theoretical. Yeah. Yeah. But this could be also part of your Yeah. before you go into comparing yields. Yeah, yeah. I’ll also talk about the both the theoretical and the empirical since we will reference it below. And then maybe it would be nice to also have a graph that kind of compares It can be either way. It can be a line graph. Mhm. So, Crop Water Stress Index, Soil Water Stress Index, right? Mhm. See how they vary, right? Yeah, if there’s any correlation. Maybe, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It would be a line graph, or maybe you can even do a box plot, right? For the same month. But now you’re comparing so this is Crop Water Stress Index, versus Soil Water Stress Index, Soil Water Stress Index. You have a suspicion there will not be too correlated, just based on my observations of the data during the season. Mhm. Yeah. Which is good. But, which is It’s something we can talk about. I mean, that’s something that, you know, people have been contemplating about, like, you know, you cannot Yeah, yeah. the Crop Water Stress Index is really way, way off compared to Soil Water Stress Index. We can even plot the correlation and if it is, if it is zero, then we see now Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. if it's zero, then we say something and then this justifies why we didn’t only consider Crop Water Stress Index, we had to couple it. Mhm. Ground it with Soil Water Stress Index. Yeah, that makes sense. Right? That makes a lot of sense. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So this will go in methods. But so here, we need to think about what metrics are we going to use? So there's water use efficiency, um, yield performance. This, I don’t think this No, that I was just writing down ideas, but what I’m thinking is more um, Environmental impact, how do you quantify that? Is there are there formulas? Have you looked into a paper that looks at that? Yeah. I was thinking more just around water water use itself. But then, I think this may be already goes under water use efficiency. That’s already included. So I think cost effectiveness is important, because how much did we What do you information do you need for the ET model? If it’s just weather, then it costs zero. The other ones, you need to think about if you actually deploy it, sensor costs, platform costs, and everything. So I don’t know if it’s worth it to talk about. Yes. It's worth it. So I think we can do maybe a cost breakdown here. Maybe for water use efficiency, you can have irrigation water use efficiency. So, because that one is yield of irrigation amount. Irrigation water use efficiency. Yeah. Then for water use efficiency, that is yield over ET. Yeah. Um Then, I'm not sure Then you have to compare. So, in all those treatments, we had canopy temp We had our ETs. Yeah. So we need to utilize that data, too. What you can do is um So you can do maybe daily. Um, it can be daily, Yeah. you know, it can either be a line graph. Yeah. So this is treatment one, but you will not call it treatment. So you maybe you call it IoT fuzzy. Yeah. And then you have maybe this is uh, this is Crop Water Stress Index, Mhm. plus Crop Water, plus Soil Water Stress Index. And then you have but this is TC, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So just because you need Before you actually compare Before you actually compare, you need to kind of explain what the field observation, you know, based on the data The raw data collected. Mhm. Yeah. So you first talk about whether information. So I guess maybe that would be the first, you know, thing to do, okay? What was the present? Sometimes I used like to compare, maybe moisture. Yeah. Right? And then you have rainfall, right? Yeah. And then, maybe so this is one and then another one could be air temperature. Right? Or even solar radiation, and then maybe wind speed because these are the inputs you had for Crop Water Stress Index. Sometimes you can have VPD Vapor pressure deficit, right? Yeah. Will we? Because there will be a lot of grass. Yeah, you have to. I feel like this paper you have to because we have only basically, we have only We have yield and irrigation. Yeah. And we cannot just look at that. So it's like you’re building a story. Mhm. Um, so most papers, if you see them, you talk about the weather information, Mhm. right? Yeah. So actually, some people what they do, you have maybe in results, right? Results and discussion. So you have whether information first, uh-huh and then what you've been talking about. So, about these and uh all the weather information, so this is the first thing. And then feed maybe field measurements. Yeah. Yeah. Field measurements. Then you have this canopy temperature for different methods. And then to be nice, so you have TC, you have also soil moisture content. Right? So either soil moisture content will use TDRs for trends and then points for uh points from neutron. Mhm. Yeah. Okay. So let’s say this is this is IoT fuzzy. This is TDR, right? And then the days we had Yeah. We had neutron, we put like it can be So we say, okay, the trend is TDR. The point is neutron. Yeah. And then you explain this, the paragraph. And then, maybe you put in some references, other people that you know what have they seen when they compare when they look at TC for Crop Water Stress Index. It can be different crops. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Yeah. But you say, “Well, in corn, what was your observation in corn?” Right? So it's like you're building it. Mhm. Yeah. Right? So it's We’re assessing but we build a story so someone can see, okay, there was a difference. There were differences in moisture, there were differences in TC and this was the weather. Yeah. Maybe Uh-huh. This is what This was the weather. You know, this is the rainfall. They got rainfall in August, rainfall in June, how much, da da da. Right? And then now you go into um You can just call it Crop Water Stress Index computation, computation, Yeah. and maybe comparison. Or I I think the computation would have been done in the methods. So probably here, it would be comparison. So, yeah, that comparison. Yeah, and then now because now you want to bring your story of how when Okay, corn was theoretical. Yeah. Because it didn’t overshoot It didn’t change. There was no It didn’t overshoot over one point five. Then you have another one in soybeans, right? Yeah. Yeah. And then after that I guess then after that, you’re already After that, then you go into your methods. Mhm. Then you start comparing maybe irrigation. Yeah. Other than water use efficiency, are there any other Yeah, there’s crop water productivity. So, for crop water crop water productivity, we didn’t collect the biomass. Yeah. So we will be able to do that. I don’t know. Let me see uh Let me see the formula here. Let me see. Integrating. So. These are the data for crop water use efficiency. Which is the Um, yeah, we can even so ET, water use, vapor transpiration. I think Yeah, water use efficiency is okay. I think crop water productivity, check. I think you have to have above above ground biomass. Crop water productivity. Yeah, I remember that from when we were doing simulations. Yeah. Right? Is amount of additional grain, no biomass. Yeah. I think you need to have biomass. Yeah, I'll look for the formula, but I think Yeah. It is Can you go back? I think I It is Is the yield, crop yield over ET? Well, I think there’s two versions. You can either use only the grain or the total biomass. So we could just do the one with Maybe, yeah, look into that, but, uh Yeah. Yeah. But I guess, maybe, you need uh Yeah. Yeah, and then comparing the methods, you have irrigation, you can compare. So, for irrigation, maybe you can just have two like Each column means a day you irrigated. Yeah. So like that. So, for different methods, Right? Okay. Yeah. And then and then uh, this is irrigation. Before you actually show the indices, you can just show even yield. The differences. It can be box. It can be Yeah, I guess it can be a bar graph or box plots. It would be nice to show a full range of yield. You know? Just because this is going to be mean But then a box plot tells you the distribution, right? Okay, of yield from the different plots. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. From different plots. Yeah. Yeah. Makes I think I need to put the data together so this So here, for uh-huh um, plot numbers Because here, there's plot numbers. So everything I have is correlated to plot numbers. Let’s see. I’m not sure But then, yeah, when when, uh I think in papers, you don’t you don’t Because a plot is a rep. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. You just do the average. Yeah. But for processing the data, just making these plots, it will be useful to have it from here, and I can even take the average and everything. Yeah. I mean, yeah. Uh, let’s see this Yeah. I mean for corn, I think I This is corn. I did this first. I didn’t put the plot numbers. Yeah, if I had that, it would be helpful. This is for soybeans. Yeah, but which I can do. Yeah. Yeah. But this one I did, right? But then, then you’re not going to show plot numbers. You’re going to show treatments, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The treatment. Yes. Yes. And I guess this one Yeah, it still shows that ET really did good, which is yeah, this data is really good, but for corn, Yeah. I’m still yeah, ET is still high, but Those ones appeared to have done better, which is I mean I need to go back and look at because see when I was doing the average Yeah. Yeah. When I did the average Where is the thing? Okay, for soybeans. For each plot. Because, at times, there’s some outliers. You know, one plot might be Yeah, yeah. I suspect two plot 2023 for corn will be, uh Yeah. We’ll have So, like here, you see, I did for three plots, but then see, this number is really way, way Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So I don’t trust that number. So, basically, I took two reps because they're close. So which I have to do for corn. Okay. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because when I saw these, when I saw the yield for corn, as like “Let me do per plot”, and then this made more sense, right? Mhm. Yeah. And you see, for Crop Water Stress Index I mean, yeah, they’re almost pretty close, but I feel like 70 and 62, you know? Okay. No, 70 and 73.7. This is low, right? Yeah. Yeah. So How would we report this? So you’re going to report the average. So you will show this. But the median doesn't change, it's still the same median. Yeah. Yeah. Right? So I guess So what most people do, they put the average yield. Yeah. Right? What I'm talking about is these are three different treatments. Uh-huh. Presumably, they had the same application regime. So, why not average these three? No, because you see if you average Yeah. So, one is an outlier. Yeah, yeah. So you eliminate the outlier from Yeah, well So to have really, you know, maybe true actually From the treatment. Yeah. yield close to the true value. Yeah. Yeah. But then for the box plots, you can show, okay, this was a spread. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know? So, with the box plot, we include that um outlier and it will show up here. Yeah, the outlier is there. Yeah. But then some people in yield, if you yeah, you check some papers, Mhm. they don’t I feel like there’s value for us to show the box plot Yeah. to show, you know um to show the distribution of the data. Most people just Mhm. just put the average yield. Mhm. But then, yeah, I think yeah, part of the part of the methods, we're going to explain how the yield was was collected. You know? We used a combine, da da da. And then it was processed. Yeah, for that part, I’ll be able to add something, you know? Yeah. Mhm. Okay. And then we’ll say We’ll say, maybe, a box plot. Box plots Yeah. were developed using all the data. Yeah. So we’re going to say, “Well, the way we processed in GIS” So this is how I processed the data. Okay. So Um, So we have I’ll show you Okay. So after we harvest, we download the data. We download the yield from the combine, from the combine monitor. Then we’ll say we used SMS. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. SMS uh, it’s called SMS advanced uh leader. We’ll be SMS advanced ag leader, right? So this software helps us to create a shape file Mhm. Yeah. from yield monitor data. Then after we So because, okay, let’s open So because, from here, I transposed it into this software, and then you see So we had linear, west orchard, right? So we have corn and soybeans. So if I click corn Mhm. Yeah. So basically, this is this is yield data. Five. That’s five. Yeah. Yeah. So then after that, what I do, I I just export. So I export as a shape file, like dot SHP. Then because, but then before that, we have to create create Yeah. Mhm. a shape file for the study in ArcGIS, right? Because you need to know the boundaries and plots, right? Yeah. So this is Can we Can we have a picture of this, like the raw picture, before we process it? Because I can superimpose the boundaries on that using lines. I don’t know Then would be able to see the treatments on the picture? We can, but some people don’t. Like you're going to see most papers Yeah. I think that’s something that they expect you to do. It's something that is No. Okay, I think the most important thing is the yield But then you can explain Okay, it's okay. We can have Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, because I think if we take a picture of this and we put the actual boxes, then it's even easier for us to see even as we're processing the data, even if we don’t publish it, we can see Oh, okay, but then here, maybe for that, you know, because you see here Visualize. Yeah. So you see, for soybeans, I named the plots. I named all those plots here. So this is the shape file. I In which case I think I need to change, because you're using the new uh which is okay. So I need to correlate the new and the old. Yes. Which is okay? Yeah, which is okay. I mean, um like what we said because based on Based on the limitation of the system, before we wanted to do eight, but then we counted and you know, one tube was here, another tube was here, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, and then another tube was here, another was here. And then, so one, two, three, four So we’re counting six plots, right? across a span. So basically what you have to do, is you’re going to combine Yeah. I think Because there are originally seven. Yeah, there were originally seven. Maybe another tube was here. So, basically, the neutron will take It should be the first um So let’s say this was 7001, 7002, 7003, 7004, 7005, 7006, 7007, 7008, right? Yeah. So for this plot, um we will We will consider neutron reading for 7001. Because, for sure, we know Yeah. the first tube is somewhere here. And then for this one, we'll use 7000 for the second for 7000 Now, the new 7002, we'll use 7003. Yeah. Yeah. You know? And then for For this one, okay, yeah. For this one, we might Yeah, we might use either 7005 or 7006. We can plot out and see how the data is. Yeah. But we’ll have a tube, for sure, Mhm. in that plot. In those plots. Yeah. Right? Yeah, we can do that. But I feel like Yeah, I feel like I mean it will be because some of the treatments were a little close. Mhm. So I think what was supposed to be different treatments in a few cases will end up being the same. It’s okay. I mean so, I didn’t update I didn’t update the the layout, but what I did is when we’re irrigating Yeah. Yeah. this is how we irrigated it. I’ll show you here. Okay. So, like in the Let’s see here. So, that would be Uh, I So, this was the map that we used. You again. Okay? So you see So this is your This is Span 5, right? No. This is four. This is five. So you see the first one is treatment three. If you go back to the Excel, yeah, we need to maybe Hi. Yeah. Yeah. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. So this doesn’t have I'm not sure if it's because of the, yeah. Let’s do soybeans. Let’s do soybeans, okay? Because soybeans has numbers. So 2001. Where’s 2001? So that was Treatment 3, right? Yeah. So you see here, this is three, which is Well, the thing is it would be a combination of two and three. What I'm saying is, we no longer have separate treatments, because so you're saying it's this is the plan here. Linear. So linear area. Yeah. If we come here So you see two and three are close. So we’re going to compare two and three? That would be difficult, because what if they all fall under the same block? Because this is seven. Depending on how we split it, these two could fall under the same Or maybe we get out of this. So we can have one big one. Yeah, we had another one where we Yeah, so where we had to say, okay, these plots Yeah. remember Yeah. Yeah, I remember. But I think even with that, there were still because the sensors were already in at that point. So like, depending on where the sensors were, there would be cases where even if you have different treatments, you’re not able to apply those different treatments, because they’re all close together Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. in the same block. So, and I think for this, too I’m not exactly sure where the geographical boundary is. So one, two, three, we tried to do this, okay? We had this. So, one plot, another plot, Yeah. I think that could be here, maybe. and then we said, “Yeah, this is what we did”. But I told you to create Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. a new figure, right? Modified. So you see we had two, three Yeah. and then one combined. Yes. So we actually had all those sensors. We didn’t So, we tried to make sure that regardless where the sensors were installed, we still had those treatments, right? Yes. Mhm. The question then will be, what is the precise boundary So, yeah, because of this line on the field? So because this is 20 This is so this is 20 rows, right? Yeah. So we had installed at between six and eight, right? Yeah. So, for sure, if we had a sensor here and then a sensor here, Yeah. Yeah. would be safe. Like if the sensor If you had sensor here And then even for this one, because we said, okay, the sensor is between It should be somewhere here, Yeah. Yeah. yeah. Yeah. and then for this one, we have a sensor here. Yeah. Yeah, I think the majority should be fine. Yeah, we should be good. Yeah. Yeah. We should be good. We’re for Yeah. Yeah, but then what we didn’t do is just to, you know, modify everything. I think to to modify Instead of modifying, it will be useful to leave the original and put the actual new boxes on top. So we can see the boundaries. Yeah. That's what you had said. But, okay, this is the thing. So we have Yeah. Okay? So, based on the So we have three Treatment 3 Okay, I’ll just say three. Then this is two. This is one. Yeah, one. Okay. Yeah. And then this is one. This is one. Yeah. One. And then this is No. This is three, two, one. This is four. This is one. This is two. Four. Three. Three. One. Four. Five. Five. Two. Was five the ET? Yeah, okay. Six. So I just added these We are not We are not going to show this. So I was putting Xs Yeah, yeah. Okay, so this is five? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Is this Span 5? Yeah. But I think, yeah. But then part of the, um Yeah. Is it the same for Span 2? So because you’ve already you have Yeah. You have the old setup the old setup for your for the for the Crop to Cloud paper. Let’s just maintain that. But in the back of our mind Yeah, yeah, yeah. When we’re doing the calculation, yeah. Yeah, the calculation. So we’ll not show this. We’ll show the the one that you have for your Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. But then part of our calculations, we know based on the irrigation, how we irrigated, because of


the system, Yeah, yeah. then we can tell. Yeah, we can tell. But yeah, the yields are okay Mhm, mhm. because so because two, three 2003. So 2003 Oh Two zero Sorry. So this is corn. This is corn. Okay. This is soybeans. So this is corn, okay? And I think maybe Let’s see soybeans. Yeah. Because it might have changed. So, for soybeans, okay. So, for soybeans, the first one is two. Yeah. Second one is three, which we have. The same thing we have in This is one, and I guess this is one. No, this is four. Then this is two. This is four. This is one. This is three. This is Really? This is two. One. Five. Two. Five. Six. Six. Okay. So, one So 2003 is one. Yeah. So one, two, three, four, five, six, seven is Yeah, seven is one. Okay. Right? Where are these based on the old plot numbers or the new? New. Okay. So could we write, maybe in So number two is But no, the I mean the treatments are still the same. New ones. These ones. Okay. Right? Okay. So these numbers are still corresponding. No, this is 2001, 2002. Yeah, okay. So, you see for the modified That’s what we are saying. Okay. Oh, so this is the way Okay, okay. So, that makes sense. Makes sense. Yes. So then I was saying that we need to overlay Overlay, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Makes sense. I think Yeah. Right? Yeah, I think it makes sense. Yeah. Um But yeah, so yeah, the other thing we need, yeah, neutron I think we talked about neutron Yeah. And I think Martha has already she knows how to She has already developed a spreadsheet where you can compute those stand counts into volumetric water content. Just ask her for the template. So you just basically paste, you know? So that you get these values for for each day we recorded neutron. Yeah. Nice. Okay. Yeah, yeah. Mhm. Mhm. Yeah. I guess, yeah, and then Yeah. So we’ve talked about, you know, the indices. Then we have talked about Yeah. We’ve talked about Crop Water Stress Index, um comparing I’ve forgotten here. We compare other methods, right? No. So comparing the Crop Water Stress Index across the different methods. So maybe treatment one, treatment two, three. Oh, because you have Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What method is that? And then, no, where is the Anyways. We also did mention having maybe the Crop Water Stress Index for the different treatments all on the same graph. All the same graph. Yes, yes. And then, you know, when you go to maybe comparing, you know, I don't know what you can The last one is just, you know, comparing. You can compare irrigation yield across treatments, and then you compare indices. Maybe irrigation Irrigation Water Use Efficiency, Irrigation Water Water Use Efficiency, Crop Water Use Efficiency, you know? And then or maybe you can even compare I think that’s Yeah, let’s not compare because I was thinking yield yield versus irrigation. But I don’t know if you’ll find any Anything interesting, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think just comparing across methods? Yeah. Yeah. Make sense. Makes sense. Yeah. Yeah, I think Yeah. Makes sense. All the work will be in just processing the data. So, yeah, because you have the yields for soybeans, so what I’ll do, I'll get you yield for corn plots. But I guess, you know, um we’ll want to go here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like this graph is really good. You just have to change you just have to name by name, you know, actual names of the treatments. IoT fuzzy, right? Mhm. By Yeah. Treatment. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. What’s Grower’s Practice? Do I No, no. Just get rid of that because I was just putting on maybe or I was adding maybe zero point two inches, one point two, assuming that maybe a producer goes over by maybe Instead of putting on one inch And the pivots will have more capacity to put on more. I was just thinking in terms of cumulative, you know? Cumulative irrigation at the end of the season. No, no, no. Just Okay, okay. Yeah. Mhm, mhm. Mhm. They would have put on more than us. Yeah, they'll put more than us, but yeah. Mhm. So yeah, we Yeah, we’ll just basically do ET model, um And the four. Yeah. And then Yeah, I’ll have both graphs. Maybe the first thing you can just explain about the distribution. You can say, maybe, yields for IoT range between Because the range Range maybe from that to that uh and the mean was Yeah. And then this five percent. So there's a way maybe look at the box plot to see how they actually expand these limits. I think this is 95% confidence interval. Mhm. Yeah. And then maybe this is five percent and then this is the mean, the star, right? Confidence interval. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Mhm. Okay. Yeah. Okay. To be nice to have before you do the average yield, before, just to tell us the distribution, you know? Mhm. And talk about the details of the data, right? And it’s the same thing for Crop Water Stress Index across the treatment. But also you can also do Soil Water Stress No. You can do Yeah, you can do both. So you can do first, Crop Water Stress Index, then you combine to. So a box plot for the values across the season or what? Okay. Across the season. Okay. Because you’re getting Mhm. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So the across the season, or we can even do maybe per month, because if you want to capture different growth stages Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We could do, maybe, per month. This is the average, or this is the box plot for each month, and then we talk about So which which we talk about Yeah, that’s That’s Yeah, that’s fantastic, like what we did here. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, makes sense, make sense. And then after that Mhm. you bring Because I did it, maybe, in my paper. And then you compare apples and oranges. You have Crop Water Stress Index, but still you have You're going to just add, like a box plot side by side. And then you say, okay, besides and now you talk about Mhm. And then you say Okay, besides Yeah. Yeah. I would I would do one, maybe. It is one figure. Crop Water Stress Index only, Soil Water Stress Index only, and then two merged. Okay. And so you can kind of compare Yeah. We first talk about each Yeah. and then what, right? And I think what I can do for Crop Water Stress Index because we’re going from zero to one point five, if you want a direct comparison with Soil Water Stress Index, we need to normalize those down to one. Because Was it one? I did one point five because If we put the threshold at one, there would be too few valid values. Oh. Yeah. I think you mentioned your paper as well, the theoretical tends to go above. Yes, yes. And then you can say, “Well,” You can say, “In this paper,” you know, “Uh they also observed that, you know, Crop Water Stress Index was going above one,” which we’re also observing, you know? So, Yeah. Okay. So you see what I was talking about? You know, you can If you want to, you can, maybe, uh Anyway, maybe you first talk about weather and then you compare irrigation and rainfall. Mhm. Yeah. Cumulative? You can even do the same And then you see this. So you have the TDRs, right? And then you have the points as neutrons? Mhm. Yeah. For the neutron, and then you show the full Yeah. Because anyway, my major thing was Crop Water Stress Index, but you have to what did you observe in those measurements that you did? Yeah. Mhm. Uh, so I used the box plot for temperatures. So this is what So, let's say this is the Crop Water Stress Index, Soil Water Stress Index, right? Mhm. Yeah. You know, how to Yeah. So this is You see, I had different methods, but you know, I compare. Mhm. Yeah. And you see, these are outliers. The points. Yeah, yeah. You know? But you can look at how maybe I described how I used the box plots to kind of Mhm. Yeah. maybe uh explain, you know, what I observed. But yeah, I think yeah, you just have to know the mean, uh the lower and upper and then this is five percent and this is 95% confidence interval, I think. Mhm. Yeah. Okay. Make sense. Yeah. And then, um so let's go back to your outline. Yeah, I’ll have to do corn Corn yield for bell. So I think the last thing I had I had a section for cross system discussion. So because I’m thinking, individually, maybe present the results for each system, maybe across the different axes we talked about, and then have a section where we compare the different methods and patterns between them. Yeah. I think I think all that section where you're talking about each of those, it's going to be the same section where you're talking about Yeah. So we don’t need to do it in a separate section. So we do the comparison in the same? Yeah, because you have Because you can have one figure. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And I think probably these these will need to maybe be in the uh discussion So system comparisons discussion, or results. Yeah. But then you need to also talk about data analysis. How are you going to So you’re going to say, maybe, you’re going to compare trends. You’re going to compare trends of Crop Water Stress Index across treatments, because everything that you’re going to draw here It’s better you say it in Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Yeah, you say what you’re going to do before. You say what you’re going to do. Yeah. You know? And then you’re going maybe to compare, um you’re going to compare distribution across yield Mhm. distribution or yield distribution or Crop Water Stress Index across treatments using box plots. You know? And then you’re going to use maybe linear regression, just to compare Crop Water Stress Index, or Soil Water Stress Index. Is there We know there’s no relationship. Mhm. Yeah. But we want to see something. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Um Yeah, and then you’re going to maybe compare You’re going to use bar graphs to compare performance metrics, you know, across treatments. Mhm. Mhm. Yeah. So we state that in the methodology, and we use it in the results. Yeah. Everything Every graph you’re going to draw The methodology, we use it here. Yeah. in that analysis, you have to And how are you going to analyze the data? Maybe you're going to say Mhm. yeah, you’re going to do average You’re going to average Maybe you’re going to do mean average across the reps across the plots. Mhm. Yeah. Right? Yeah, for both, uh for for yield and Crop Water Stress Index and performance metrics. Mhm. Mhm. Make sense. Yeah. Yeah. But then, yeah, for these So I like Yeah, in Results and Discussion, I'll start with weather information, then field measurements. You know, you talk about canopy temperatures, how it’s varying across And it would be nice to compare that with soil moisture. You know? So, in that section where we’re actually talking about Crop Water Stress Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Mhm. Yeah. So field field observation. Maybe I’d start with TC, canopy temperatures, across the treatments. And then after that, a graph that is showing that is showing the variation of Crop Water Stress Index. Mhm. Then I would have then um maybe for the TCs, I’d compare the TCs with TDR, with the moisture. Mhm. Right? And then for Crop Water Stress Index, I just have only those Okay. So you compare raw and raw, and then index and index? That's what I'm getting to. And then index separate Index, index, and then index combined. Raw and raw. Although, I feel like Yeah. I don’t know if TC and volumetric water content will give anything meaningful, because they’re so different. You know? One is I mean, putting them on the same graph, I don’t know if that would add much. Because the It won’t. I know there’s a less correlation, but it’s something you can Because now Yeah. Just to show it, yeah. You’re going to tell us what was your observation. Yeah. Yeah. Right? Mhm. So maybe Yeah. You would correlate, maybe, canopy temperature with different depth, you know? Canopy temperature and then six inch soil moisture at six inch. That’s one graph. Canopy temperature, 18 inch. Canopy temperature So the average So between zero to six, which is You just have one. From zero to 18, you have two, six and 18, right? And then zero to 30. Is there a correlation in any of those moisture different You could even just choose one. So not necessarily the time graph, but the average in different periods. Mhm. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Mhm. Mhm. Okay. Right. So we're not looking to plot maybe, like per time, but more like the average Crop Water Stress Index, maybe in a week or a month. So it can Yeah. Or not average, because you’re looking at trends. I would get maybe a week where You don’t have to capture the entire growing season. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. You can basically capture a day, like how we did in the paper. A day either it rained Mhm. Mhm. or we irrigated. Yeah. And then you show canopy temperature for seven days, or for three days, for seven Mhm. Okay. Seven to three days, right? Yeah. So this is TC and then you come with your this is soil soil content, maybe zero to six. Yeah. Right? Mhm. And then maybe you can say, “Well, when we irrigated or it rained,” you know, “The six inch” You know, “There was an increase in moisture.” Yeah, yeah. But then how did it take? Was there a decrease in canopy temperature on the next day? Right? So if this is the same, then maybe you could say, “Maybe it takes time” It’s like you're telling a story. It takes time for the temperature for the moisture to be The increase in moisture to be reflected in canopy temperature. Yeah. Mhm. Maybe here it started reducing. You say, “Well, roughly it takes two days,” Yeah. right? Yeah, yeah. It's like, yeah, you’re building Mhm. And then you do the same for zero to 18 and then zero to 32. And then you have I’ll just do treatment Your treatment Treatment 1 Yeah. But then so this you’re going to average out. It's going to be average of reps, right? Mhm. You don't need to consider one plot. So, or maybe what you can do, you plot you separate a plot Okay. Okay, okay. Or, you know, you separate. So you have three plots. You talk about each. Yeah, it’s three. So No, because you're going to see, okay, is there one that is really is not showing me any correlation. If let's say you plot out treatment one, it's actually showing you, you know, good data. Mhm. Because one of one of them might be Because you first assess the data. Yeah. So if treatment one is good, treatment two is good, but three is really not showing you any correlation. Are just average values for for the TC and soil moisture content at different depth. Mhm. Okay. So the final the final graph should be the average of either It might be all Mhm. or maybe two, because you’d want to display quality data. Yeah, yeah, yeah, makes sense. Make sense. And then now, field observation on on this So you’ve talked about canopy temperature, you've talked about, you know, moisture, how it is varying. Um What else did we talk about in field observation? Yeah. I think those are the major ones. Then after these, you’ve you reported on moisture. Then you go into your indices. Indices. Mhm. You know? Maybe here So you could have Crop Water Stress Index across treatments. Then Soil Water Stress Index across Mhm. and then you have Because you want to show a distribution. Crop Water Stress Index, same here and then combined side by side. So that section is okay. And then you go into Mhm. Make sense. Make sense. Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. You go into you're now we're going into comparing in terms of, uh maybe you can say, “Irrigation application in treatments”. No, Irrigation I don’t know. Maybe you just say Mhm. comparing methods, and then you have subheading Irrigation application, or Irrigation Management. Mhm. Mhm. Talk about that there, yeah. Or maybe it can also it can also be just one graph. One figure. Sorry. You know? Irrigation, right, applied across treatments, yield Yeah. and now you have your irrigation water use efficiency, Crop Water Use Efficiency. That’s enough. Mhm. And then you just talk about the four. Yeah, yeah. We just talk about that. And then Mhm. future research, okay? Maybe limit, uh challenge What did we call it? Challenges and limitations. But I feel like that belongs in the previous paper. I don't know if it belongs here, because Or maybe it's going to be Future research or consideration, okay? And then conclude. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you see the paper We really have a big, you know, well thought out paper, you know. Yeah. Mhm. Mhm. Um Yeah. Yeah, I think this makes sense so far. Gives me Still a lot to do, yeah. a lot to do, yeah. Um I think we have a title. The title we can fine tune. Can work on it, yeah. But I think, yeah, it’s good to go. Then I think as you tell, in your body, of course, water scarcity, but then now you build your story. Methods, challenges, and then you highlight the Crop to Cloud platform. It’s, you know, how is it addressing those challenges? And now, irrigation scheduling, why it’s important, and how which methods Yeah. how those methods have been used for irrigation scheduling, what are some of the opportunities and gaps. And then what is your major goal, specific objectives? So I feel like, specific objectives Um what would be the specific objectives? I think we should have So, I think one evaluating the efficacy of combining different measures of plant stress. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. So different indices of plant stress and scheduling irrigation. And then comparing data driven methods with more traditional Well, we don't really have a traditional method, because ET is also based on data. This would be the main objective. I mean, does it need more than one? Mhm. Evaluating the efficacy of combining different indices plant stress and schedule irrigation. You could say, “Plant water” Yeah. Plant water is canopy temperature and soil water is sensors. You could say plant water and soil, plant plant and soil water stress Plant Water Stress. yeah in scheduling irrigation. Yeah. And then In real time In real time, maybe and maybe and comparing to an ET-based baseline. I mean, that could be it could be part of the specific objectives. So here, because this is your main goal Yeah. Yeah. Maybe using seamless I don't know, you can “seamless” or data because everything is in Crop to Cloud. So you want to Using maybe I don’t know because there’s data automation, data Mhm. So you want to Yeah. But what my thought is, Mhm. we will only maybe mention that in one line or two. So do we want to include in the objective? Because here we're just evaluating. Yeah, but yeah. So, I don't know if it's worth it to to include maybe the seamless or the real-time aspect, because we’re just looking at the data without the system architecture. Yeah. But it definitely But then it is within, because you're using the platform, The platform Yeah. which makes it so unique. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because like what we said in the challenges, most people are, you know, they take their laptop, download the data, come, run in the spreadsheet. But now you have a fully automated system. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, makes sense. Using maybe a fully automated, you know, seamless data I don’t know Yeah. Make sense. So include Yeah, I think I can include and mention it here, in some way. Yeah, but this will be the main The specific objectives could be uh

Yeah, I think for specific, you need Of course we are comparing different. Mhm. Yeah, my brain isn’t working, but Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I can work on what we have so far and then maybe I’ll show you a later version. Of course. So yeah. But I feel like Yeah. Yeah, you know, we’ll think about it. Yeah, but you know, we can have two specific objectives. So the first one, for sure, we want to compare Yeah, I’ll think about it. Yeah. Yeah. we want to assess or evaluate the performance of those methods Mhm. Mhm. with respect to irrigation applied, yields achieved, and then, um maybe that could be one, and then the next one is just maybe another one will be on, you know, the indices. Yeah. Uh, Let’s see here, uh And sometimes you can see the different people that have maybe compared methods, what were their specific objectives, you know? It's going to be almost the same data. How did they Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How did they you know state their objectives? Because for this paper quantifying and comparing copy yield and irrigation usage for different irrigation for different irrigation methods yield. Um Well, yeah, I mean for that, I think we have one big one or one main objective. Yeah. So there’s one, but, uh Yeah, I mean Yeah, think about those specific objectives. Yeah. But I feel like we have everything, um Yeah. um Yeah. Make sense. So yeah, the first thing, I mean yeah, you'll be able to And you can And I think when I get started it will become clearer. Yeah. Yeah. Because we We We know how we want to We know how we can we can show we can we can, yeah, how we can we can show the data and explain the data. Yeah. Yeah. Make sense. Yeah, and I guess yeah, as you write, you know, you go back and find, you know, modify the objectives and then the title might change. Edit the title or, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Make sense. Yeah. So, I think Yeah. I’ll probably work on that this afternoon, but I when The people who are coming tomorrow, they’re arriving at three? They’re arriving at 11:00, but then we have Okay. some discussions, meetings, but then after, maybe around 3:00 or 2:00 Yeah. We’ll have a field tour, you know? Okay. They would want to talk to a student, a technician Mhm. Mhm, mhm. Yeah. Or so for some of the things I removed from the car, and then the office, I know you So because I need to I mean I can leave them there, but you said to make the office presentable. Maybe let’s Can we take them to the shop? We can put them in the back of the shop, yeah. Yeah. In the back of the shop. When I get time. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, and that’s why I’m thinking, because maybe since Ronaldo and Juan, I don’t know what they’re doing, but this afternoon, I had a meeting booked with somebody around, like, 3:00. So I don’t know how. Yeah. I mean, yeah, it’s fine. We can Yeah. And I don’t think there’s major cleaning, but let’s make sure that the office is clean. You’re talking about the boxes. The boxes. So then, yeah, let’s take those boxes at the back of the shop. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um then clean that space. The tubes should be well arranged, where they’re supposed to be in the shelves. Will they be going to the back of the shop? Because I think, probably later, we will have a lot of time to sort everything out. But for now, like we don’t need to take them. They can just see like the Yeah, so where we enter, you know, that space needs to be clear and organized. sensor entrance. Yes, yes, just the entrance space, and maybe the table inside. So The table because they would I’d want to I would want them to see the sensor cluster. Yeah. But then everything else, the tubes have to be where they’re supposed to be, the floor has to be clean. Yeah. Yeah. I think maybe I don’t know if Juan would do anything on that today, but maybe tomorrow morning I could help with that and then today work on the office. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, as long as, yeah, by by the time they’re showing up, yeah, but early in the morning we can start cleaning. Yeah, by Wednesday. Yeah, that’s what I’m thinking because, yeah, I had some things for this afternoon, also I’ll work on this, as well. Yeah. Because it’s better to go back because Now it’s still fresh because I will lose it if it stays for too long. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, makes sense. Yeah. But, yeah, that’s So, we got Did you look at those comments from Yeah, I’m still looking. I think today I’ll I’ll reply from who? I think Gema. Oh, no I haven’t I haven’t read that yet. I just the one from Yufang and Yeah. Yeah. And I guess the ones I I The ones I put in some of them you didn’t Yes, yes, I didn’t get the chance. So, yeah, as time goes on So I think, maybe for now, since we just spoke, I’ll work on this, and then maybe start addressing some of the other ones. Yeah, just focus on this. No, those maybe once we get everything everyone everyone’s comments. Then process it all at once. Everybody. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, we can process everything at once. Yeah. Makes sense. Makes sense. Yeah. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Tired. My brain is. Know, long days. These ones fire me up, but I’m not thinking. Yeah. All right. Thank you. See you. See you. Just thinking about this line, how to sort of use this spray.


